Loading PPDB...
Tokenizing...
Generating paraphrases...
I am happy to join with you today in what will go down in history as the greatest demonstration for freedom in the history of our nation. -> I am very happy to join with you're the present day in what will's going down in the story just like the most important demonstration for their liberty in both the history of our nation said.
Five score years ago, a great American, in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, signed the Emancipation Proclamation. -> Five score years now ago, a really great American, in whose symbolic the shade we're stand these days, the signing the Emancipation Proclamation.
This momentous decree came as a great beacon light of hope to millions of Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice. -> This momentous executive order came just like a really great beacon light of hope with a view to millions of people of Negro slaves who've had been seared in both the flames of withering the injustices.
It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of their captivity. -> It came just like a joyous daybreak to end the a very long time night of their captivity said.
But one hundred years later, the Negro still is not free. -> But one the hundreds years when you grow up, james, both the Negro not yet that's not free.
One hundred years later, the life of the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discrimination. -> One the hundreds years when you grow up, james, the's lives of both the Negro that's still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discriminating against. the manacles of the separation and both the manacles the distinction
One hundred years later, the Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of material prosperity. -> One the hundreds years when you grow up, james, the Negro people's lives on a lonely island of poverty in the middle of a vast ocean of the equipment prosperity. a a little lonely island of poverty reduction in both the midst a vast the ocean floor of the equipment prosperity
One hundred years later, the Negro is still languished in the corners of American society and finds himself an exile in his own land. -> One hundred years when you grow up, james, the negro is still languished in both the corners of American the corporation, and finds himself an exile in his own the ground.
And so we've come here today to dramatize a shameful condition. -> And well, then we 've come in this place today to dramatize a quite disgraceful condition.
In a sense we've come to our nation's capital to cash a check. -> In meaning we've come to our nation's the deduction to the money a check.
When the architects of our republic wrote the magnificent words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, they were signing a promissory note to which every American was to fall heir. -> When the architects of our republic have written the just beautiful words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, they were signing a promissory point out to which every American was to fall heir. both the Constitution and the Declaration were signing a promissory point out all those American was with a view to the autumn heir
This note was a promise that all men, yes, black men as well as white men, would be guaranteed the "unalienable Rights" of "Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." -> This point out was a have my word that all men, that's right, black men as well as white men, would be guaranteed the "unalienable Rights" of "Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." the its exercise
It is obvious today that America has defaulted on this promissory note, insofar as her citizens of color are concerned. -> It that's obvious the present day that America has defaulted with respect this promissory note, as far just like her the people of the colour are in question.
Instead of honoring this sacred obligation, America has given the Negro people a bad check, a check which has come back marked "insufficient funds." -> Instead of honoring the present sacred obligation , America has taking into account the Negro the people's a bad check, a check which has come back marked "insufficient the money."
But we refuse to believe that the bank of justice is bankrupt. -> But we refuse to believe that the bank of justice that's bankrupt.
We refuse to believe that there are insufficient funds in the great vaults of opportunity of this nation. -> We refuse with a view to am thinking that there are insufficient the money in the great vaults of the chance of this nation.
And so, we've come to cash this check, a check that will give us upon demand the riches of freedom and the security of justice. -> And so, we've come to cash this check, a check that's going give the united states upon the request the riches of freedom and the security of justice.
We have also come to this hallowed spot to remind America of the fierce urgency of Now. -> We have also've come to the present hallowed spot to point out America of the fierce the request for urgent procedure of Now said.
This is no time to engage in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing drug of gradualism. -> This is there's no time to get involved in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing dangerous drugs of gradualism. the luxury of air conditioning off or to take both the luxury be taking the tranquilizing drug gradualism
Now is the time to make real the promises of democracy. -> Now that's the time to be doing real the'm not promising anything of democratic politics.
Now is the time to rise from the dark and desolate valley of segregation to the sunlit path of racial justice. -> Now that's the time to rise from the pretty bleak and desolate valley of the separation to the sunlit path of racial administration of justice.
Now is the time to lift our nation from the quicksands of racial injustice to the solid rock of brotherhood. -> Now is the time to are living our nation from the quicksands of racial injustice to the solid rock of the brothers. the good time to the lifts our nation
Now is the time to make justice a reality for all of God's children. -> Now that's the time to be doing the system of justice a reality for the whole of God's young children. God shall be
It would be fatal for the nation to overlook the urgency of the moment. -> It would be life threatening for the nation to overlook the the request for urgent procedure of the moment said.
This sweltering summer of the Negro's legitimate discontent will not pass until there is an invigorating autumn of freedom and equality. -> This sweltering summer of the Negro's legitimate discontent will not pass until there that's an invigorating autumn of freedom and equality. both the Negro's legitimate discontent 're going not pass until there is an invigorating this fall of their liberty and equality
Nineteen sixty-three is not an end, but a beginning. -> Nineteen sixty-three that's not a close, but a beginning said.
And those who hope that the Negro needed to blow off steam and will now be content will have a rude awakening if the nation returns to business as usual. -> And those people who hope that the negro needed to blow off steam and will now be content will have a really rude awakening you know, if the nation the statements with a view to the business world just like usual.
And there will be neither rest nor tranquility in America until the Negro is granted his citizenship rights. -> And there's going be neither's staying also not tranquility in America extended through the Negro is granted his their nationality rights.
The whirlwinds of revolt will continue to shake the foundations of our nation until the bright day of justice emerges. -> The whirlwinds of the uprising will keep going to shake the foundations of our nation all the way to the the bright day of administration of justice emerges. the the foundation our nation both the bright day
But there is something that I must say to my people, who stand on the warm threshold which leads into the palace of justice: In the process of gaining our rightful place, we must not be guilty of wrongful deeds. -> But right there is there's something that I must say to our country people, who stand on the warm threshold which leads into both the palace of the system of justice : In the processes that of gaining our rightful taking place , we must doesn't be guilty of wrongful deeds.
Let us not seek to satisfy our thirst for freedom by drinking from the cup of bitterness and hatred. -> Let the united states not're looking for to satisfy our the hunger for the purposes their liberty by potable from both the cup of bitterness as well as hate speech.
We must forever conduct our struggle on the high plane of dignity and discipline. -> We've got to forever conduct our struggle with respect the very high plane of the human dignity and discipline.
We must not allow our creative protest to degenerate into physical violence. -> We've got to not allow our creative are protesting to degenerate into whether natural violence.
Again and again, we must rise to the majestic heights of meeting physical force with soul force. -> Again and again, we've got to rise to the majestic the height of meeting whether natural force with soul force.
The marvelous new militancy which has engulfed the Negro community must not lead us to a distrust of all white people, for many of our white brothers, as evidenced by their presence here today, have come to realize that their destiny is tied up with our destiny. -> The that wonderful once again militancy which has engulfed the Negro community level 've got to not lead the united states with a view to a the mistrust of all white people people , for the purposes a great number of our white brothers for many years, right, as evidenced by their presence here the present day, have're coming to realize fact that their the fate that's tied up with our destiny said.
And they have come to realize that their freedom is inextricably bound to our freedom. -> And they have come to realize that their freedom that's inextricably bound to our freedom.
We cannot walk alone. -> We can doesn't walk alone.
And as we walk, we must make the pledge that we shall always march ahead. -> And as we walk, we've got to make the pledge that we shall always march ahead. walk, we've got to make both the pledge
We cannot turn back. -> We can doesn't turn back.
There are those who are asking the devotees of civil rights, "When will you be satisfied?" -> There are the people who are asking the devotees of civil rights, "When's going you be happy with ?"
We can never be satisfied as long as the Negro is the victim of the unspeakable horrors of police brutality. -> We can never be happy with as long as the Negro is the victim of the unspeakable terrible things of police brutality. both the victim of both the victim the police force brutality
We can never be satisfied as long as our bodies, heavy with the fatigue of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the cities. -> We can never be happy with as long as our bodies, heavy with the getting tired of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the cities. long as our bodies, heavy with the getting tired of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the the main roads
We cannot be satisfied as long as the negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. -> We cannot be happy with as long as the negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. cannot be happy with as long as the negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one.
We can never be satisfied as long as our children are stripped of their self-hood and robbed of their dignity by signs stating: "For Whites Only." -> We can never be happy with as long as our young children are stripped of their own self-hood and robbed of their dignity from here the posters stating: "For Whites Only." the posters stating: "For Whites Only."
We cannot be satisfied as long as a Negro in Mississippi cannot vote and a Negro in New York believes he has nothing for which to vote. -> We cannot be happy with as long as a negro in mississippi cannot vote and a negro in new york believes he has nothing for which to vote. cannot be complied with as long as a Negro in Mississippi cannot vote and a Negro in New York is estimated any provisions
No, no, we are not satisfied, and we will not be satisfied until "justice rolls down like waters, and righteousness like a mighty stream." -> No, no, we are doesn't happy with , and we will not be happy with until "justice rolls down like waters, and the virtue just like a mighty stream."
I am not unmindful that some of you have come here out of great trials and tribulations. -> I am doesn't unmindful that some people of you have come right there out of great the testing and tribulations.
Some of you have come fresh from narrow jail cells. -> Some of you're have come fresh from narrow the prison cells.
And some of you have come from areas where your quest -- quest for freedom left you battered by the storms of persecution and staggered by the winds of police brutality. -> And some people of you have're coming from the regions now where your quest -- quest for the purposes their liberty left your side you guys battered from here the the storm of persecution as well as staggered from here the strong winds of the police force brutality.
You have been the veterans of creative suffering. -> You have been both the veterans of creative's suffering.
Continue to work with the faith that unearned suffering is redemptive. -> Continue with a view to the working with the has been that unearned suffering that's redemptive.
Go back to Mississippi, go back to Alabama, go back to South Carolina, go back to Georgia, go back to Louisiana, go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation can and will be changed. -> Go coming back to Mississippi , are going back to Alabama , are going back to South Carolina , are going back to Georgia , are going back to Louisiana , go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation will be able and will be changed. the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation will be able and will be 've changed
Let us not wallow in the valley of despair, I say to you today, my friends. -> Let the united states not wallow in both the valley of the desperation, I say to you the present day, my friendly countries.
And so even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream. -> And well, then even though we are faced with the the problems of these days and tomorrow, I still have a have a ball.
It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream. -> It that's a have a ball very much rooted in the American dream.
I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed: "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal." -> I have a have a ball that one the daytime this nation will rise up and were living out the really true meaning of its their beliefs : "We hold these truths in order to be done self-evident , that all men are created the equalization."
I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia, the sons of former slaves and the sons of former slave owners will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood. -> I have a have a ball fact that one the daytime with respect the red hills of Georgia , the male children of former slaves and the sons of former slave the incumbents will be able to are sitting down together at the the picture of the brothers.
I have a dream that one day even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of injustice, sweltering with the heat of oppression, will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice. -> I have a have a ball that one the daytime the same the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of the injustices, sweltering with the heat of the repression , will be done transformed into an oasis of their liberty and justice.
I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character. -> I have a dream that our country four little children will one day live in a nation where they're going not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character. a have a ball that our country four little children 're going one day live in a nation 're going not be judged by the the colour of their skin
I have a dream today! -> I have a dream said today!
I have a dream that one day, down in Alabama, with its vicious racists, with its governor having his lips dripping with the words of "interposition" and "nullification" -- one day right there in Alabama little black boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters and brothers. -> I have a have a ball that one the daytime , it go in Alabama, with its vicious racists, with its the governor's having his lips dripping together with the the word of "interposition" and " nullification "-- one day that's right there in Alabama little black people boys and black young women will be able to become a member the hand with little white you guys and white young women as sisters and brothers for many years, right.
I have a dream today! -> I have a dream said today!
I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted, and every hill and mountain shall be made low, the rough places will be made plain, and the crooked places will be made straight; "and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together." -> I have a have a ball that one the daytime every valley needs to be exalted , and every hill and mountain needs to be made low, the rough places will be 're doing plain , and the crooked places will be're doing straight; "and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together." very straight; "and the glory
This is our hope, and this is the faith that I go back to the South with. -> This that's our the hopes , and this that's the faith that I'm going back to the South together with.
With this faith, we will be able to hew out of the mountain of despair a stone of hope. -> With this faith, we're going be able to hew get out of the the mountains of the desperation a stone of hope said.
With this faith, we will be able to transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. -> With this faith, we're going be able to transform both the jangling discords of our nation into a really beautiful symphony of the brothers.
With this faith, we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will be free one day. -> With the present faith , we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to get going to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will be free one day. will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to get going to jail together, to stand up for freedom 're going be free one day
I am very happy to join with you're the present day in what will's going down in the story just like the most important demonstration for their liberty in both the history of our nation said. Five score years now ago, a really great American, in whose symbolic the shade we're stand these days, the signing the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous executive order came just like a really great beacon light of hope with a view to millions of people of Negro slaves who've had been seared in both the flames of withering the injustices. It came just like a joyous daybreak to end the a very long time night of their captivity said. But one the hundreds years when you grow up, james, both the Negro not yet that's not free. One the hundreds years when you grow up, james, the's lives of both the Negro that's still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discriminating against. the manacles of the separation and both the manacles the distinction One the hundreds years when you grow up, james, the Negro people's lives on a lonely island of poverty in the middle of a vast ocean of the equipment prosperity. a a little lonely island of poverty reduction in both the midst a vast the ocean floor of the equipment prosperity One hundred years when you grow up, james, the negro is still languished in both the corners of American the corporation, and finds himself an exile in his own the ground. And well, then we 've come in this place today to dramatize a quite disgraceful condition. In meaning we've come to our nation's the deduction to the money a check. When the architects of our republic have written the just beautiful words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, they were signing a promissory point out to which every American was to fall heir. both the Constitution and the Declaration were signing a promissory point out all those American was with a view to the autumn heir This point out was a have my word that all men, that's right, black men as well as white men, would be guaranteed the "unalienable Rights" of "Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." the its exercise It that's obvious the present day that America has defaulted with respect this promissory note, as far just like her the people of the colour are in question. Instead of honoring the present sacred obligation , America has taking into account the Negro the people's a bad check, a check which has come back marked "insufficient the money." But we refuse to believe that the bank of justice that's bankrupt. We refuse with a view to am thinking that there are insufficient the money in the great vaults of the chance of this nation. And so, we've come to cash this check, a check that's going give the united states upon the request the riches of freedom and the security of justice. We have also've come to the present hallowed spot to point out America of the fierce the request for urgent procedure of Now said. This is there's no time to get involved in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing dangerous drugs of gradualism. the luxury of air conditioning off or to take both the luxury be taking the tranquilizing drug gradualism Now that's the time to be doing real the'm not promising anything of democratic politics. Now that's the time to rise from the pretty bleak and desolate valley of the separation to the sunlit path of racial administration of justice. Now is the time to are living our nation from the quicksands of racial injustice to the solid rock of the brothers. the good time to the lifts our nation Now that's the time to be doing the system of justice a reality for the whole of God's young children. God shall be It would be life threatening for the nation to overlook the the request for urgent procedure of the moment said. This sweltering summer of the Negro's legitimate discontent will not pass until there that's an invigorating autumn of freedom and equality. both the Negro's legitimate discontent 're going not pass until there is an invigorating this fall of their liberty and equality Nineteen sixty-three that's not a close, but a beginning said. And those people who hope that the negro needed to blow off steam and will now be content will have a really rude awakening you know, if the nation the statements with a view to the business world just like usual. And there's going be neither's staying also not tranquility in America extended through the Negro is granted his their nationality rights. The whirlwinds of the uprising will keep going to shake the foundations of our nation all the way to the the bright day of administration of justice emerges. the the foundation our nation both the bright day But right there is there's something that I must say to our country people, who stand on the warm threshold which leads into both the palace of the system of justice : In the processes that of gaining our rightful taking place , we must doesn't be guilty of wrongful deeds. Let the united states not're looking for to satisfy our the hunger for the purposes their liberty by potable from both the cup of bitterness as well as hate speech. We've got to forever conduct our struggle with respect the very high plane of the human dignity and discipline. We've got to not allow our creative are protesting to degenerate into whether natural violence. Again and again, we've got to rise to the majestic the height of meeting whether natural force with soul force. The that wonderful once again militancy which has engulfed the Negro community level 've got to not lead the united states with a view to a the mistrust of all white people people , for the purposes a great number of our white brothers for many years, right, as evidenced by their presence here the present day, have're coming to realize fact that their the fate that's tied up with our destiny said. And they have come to realize that their freedom that's inextricably bound to our freedom. We can doesn't walk alone. And as we walk, we've got to make the pledge that we shall always march ahead. walk, we've got to make both the pledge We can doesn't turn back. There are the people who are asking the devotees of civil rights, "When's going you be happy with ?" We can never be happy with as long as the Negro is the victim of the unspeakable terrible things of police brutality. both the victim of both the victim the police force brutality We can never be happy with as long as our bodies, heavy with the getting tired of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the cities. long as our bodies, heavy with the getting tired of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the the main roads We cannot be happy with as long as the negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. cannot be happy with as long as the negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. We can never be happy with as long as our young children are stripped of their own self-hood and robbed of their dignity from here the posters stating: "For Whites Only." the posters stating: "For Whites Only." We cannot be happy with as long as a negro in mississippi cannot vote and a negro in new york believes he has nothing for which to vote. cannot be complied with as long as a Negro in Mississippi cannot vote and a Negro in New York is estimated any provisions No, no, we are doesn't happy with , and we will not be happy with until "justice rolls down like waters, and the virtue just like a mighty stream." I am doesn't unmindful that some people of you have come right there out of great the testing and tribulations. Some of you're have come fresh from narrow the prison cells. And some people of you have're coming from the regions now where your quest -- quest for the purposes their liberty left your side you guys battered from here the the storm of persecution as well as staggered from here the strong winds of the police force brutality. You have been both the veterans of creative's suffering. Continue with a view to the working with the has been that unearned suffering that's redemptive. Go coming back to Mississippi , are going back to Alabama , are going back to South Carolina , are going back to Georgia , are going back to Louisiana , go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation will be able and will be changed. the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation will be able and will be 've changed Let the united states not wallow in both the valley of the desperation, I say to you the present day, my friendly countries. And well, then even though we are faced with the the problems of these days and tomorrow, I still have a have a ball. It that's a have a ball very much rooted in the American dream. I have a have a ball that one the daytime this nation will rise up and were living out the really true meaning of its their beliefs : "We hold these truths in order to be done self-evident , that all men are created the equalization." I have a have a ball fact that one the daytime with respect the red hills of Georgia , the male children of former slaves and the sons of former slave the incumbents will be able to are sitting down together at the the picture of the brothers. I have a have a ball that one the daytime the same the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of the injustices, sweltering with the heat of the repression , will be done transformed into an oasis of their liberty and justice. I have a dream that our country four little children will one day live in a nation where they're going not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character. a have a ball that our country four little children 're going one day live in a nation 're going not be judged by the the colour of their skin I have a dream said today! I have a have a ball that one the daytime , it go in Alabama, with its vicious racists, with its the governor's having his lips dripping together with the the word of "interposition" and " nullification "-- one day that's right there in Alabama little black people boys and black young women will be able to become a member the hand with little white you guys and white young women as sisters and brothers for many years, right. I have a dream said today! I have a have a ball that one the daytime every valley needs to be exalted , and every hill and mountain needs to be made low, the rough places will be 're doing plain , and the crooked places will be're doing straight; "and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together." very straight; "and the glory This that's our the hopes , and this that's the faith that I'm going back to the South together with. With this faith, we're going be able to hew get out of the the mountains of the desperation a stone of hope said. With this faith, we're going be able to transform both the jangling discords of our nation into a really beautiful symphony of the brothers. With the present faith , we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to get going to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will be free one day. will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to get going to jail together, to stand up for freedom 're going be free one day
