I am very happy to join with you're the present day in what will's going down in the story just like the most important demonstration for their liberty in both the history of our nation said. Five score years now ago, a really great American, in whose symbolic the shade we're stand these days, the signing the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous executive order came just like a really great beacon light of hope with a view to millions of people of Negro slaves who've had been seared in both the flames of withering the injustices. It came just like a joyous daybreak to end the a very long time night of their captivity said. But one the hundreds years when you grow up, james, both the Negro not yet that's not free. One the hundreds years when you grow up, james, the's lives of both the Negro that's still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discriminating against. the manacles of the separation and both the manacles the distinction One the hundreds years when you grow up, james, the Negro people's lives on a lonely island of poverty in the middle of a vast ocean of the equipment prosperity. a a little lonely island of poverty reduction in both the midst a vast the ocean floor of the equipment prosperity One hundred years when you grow up, james, the negro is still languished in both the corners of American the corporation, and finds himself an exile in his own the ground. And well, then we 've come in this place today to dramatize a quite disgraceful condition. In meaning we've come to our nation's the deduction to the money a check. When the architects of our republic have written the just beautiful words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, they were signing a promissory point out to which every American was to fall heir. both the Constitution and the Declaration were signing a promissory point out all those American was with a view to the autumn heir This point out was a have my word that all men, that's right, black men as well as white men, would be guaranteed the "unalienable Rights" of "Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." the its exercise It that's obvious the present day that America has defaulted with respect this promissory note, as far just like her the people of the colour are in question. Instead of honoring the present sacred obligation, America has taking into account the Negro the people's a bad check, a check which has come back marked "insufficient the money." But we refuse to believe that the bank of justice that's bankrupt. We refuse with a view to am thinking that there are insufficient the money in the great vaults of the chance of this nation. And so, we've come to cash this check, a check that's going give the united states upon the request the riches of freedom and the security of justice. We have also've come to the present hallowed spot to point out America of the fierce the request for urgent procedure of Now said. This is there's no time to get involved in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing dangerous drugs of gradualism. the luxury of air conditioning off or to take both the luxury be taking the tranquilizing drug gradualism Now that's the time to be doing real the'm not promising anything of democratic politics. Now that's the time to rise from the pretty bleak and desolate valley of the separation to the sunlit path of racial administration of justice. Now is the time to are living our nation from the quicksands of racial injustice to the solid rock of the brothers. the good time to the lifts our nation Now that's the time to be doing the system of justice a reality for the whole of God's young children. God shall be It would be life threatening for the nation to overlook the the request for urgent procedure of the moment said. This sweltering summer of the Negro's legitimate discontent will not pass until there that's an invigorating autumn of freedom and equality. both the Negro's legitimate discontent 're going not pass until there is an invigorating this fall of their liberty and equality Nineteen sixty-three that's not a close, but a beginning said. And those people who hope that the negro needed to blow off steam and will now be content will have a really rude awakening you know, if the nation the statements with a view to the business world just like usual. And there's going be neither's staying also not tranquility in America extended through the Negro is granted his their nationality rights. The whirlwinds of the uprising will keep going to shake the foundations of our nation all the way to the the bright day of administration of justice emerges. the the foundation our nation both the bright day But right there is there's something that I must say to our country people, who stand on the warm threshold which leads into both the palace of the system of justice : In the processes that of gaining our rightful taking place, we must doesn't be guilty of wrongful deeds. Let the united states not're looking for to satisfy our the hunger for the purposes their liberty by potable from both the cup of bitterness as well as hate speech. We've got to forever conduct our struggle with respect the very high plane of the human dignity and discipline. We've got to not allow our creative are protesting to degenerate into whether natural violence. Again and again, we've got to rise to the majestic the height of meeting whether natural force with soul force. The that wonderful once again militancy which has engulfed the Negro community level 've got to not lead the united states with a view to a the mistrust of all white people people, for the purposes a great number of our white brothers for many years, right, as evidenced by their presence here the present day, have're coming to realize fact that their the fate that's tied up with our destiny said. And they have come to realize that their freedom that's inextricably bound to our freedom. We can doesn't walk alone. And as we walk, we've got to make the pledge that we shall always march ahead. walk, we've got to make both the pledge We can doesn't turn back. There are the people who are asking the devotees of civil rights, "When's going you be happy with ?" We can never be happy with as long as the Negro is the victim of the unspeakable terrible things of police brutality. both the victim of both the victim the police force brutality We can never be happy with as long as our bodies, heavy with the getting tired of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the cities. long as our bodies, heavy with the getting tired of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the the main roads We cannot be happy with as long as the negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. cannot be happy with as long as the negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. We can never be happy with as long as our young children are stripped of their own self-hood and robbed of their dignity from here the posters stating: "For Whites Only." the posters stating: "For Whites Only." We cannot be happy with as long as a negro in mississippi cannot vote and a negro in new york believes he has nothing for which to vote. cannot be complied with as long as a Negro in Mississippi cannot vote and a Negro in New York is estimated any provisions No, no, we are doesn't happy with, and we will not be happy with until "justice rolls down like waters, and the virtue just like a mighty stream." I am doesn't unmindful that some people of you have come right there out of great the testing and tribulations. Some of you're have come fresh from narrow the prison cells. And some people of you have're coming from the regions now where your quest -- quest for the purposes their liberty left your side you guys battered from here the the storm of persecution as well as staggered from here the strong winds of the police force brutality. You have been both the veterans of creative's suffering. Continue with a view to the working with the has been that unearned suffering that's redemptive. Go coming back to Mississippi, are going back to Alabama, are going back to South Carolina, are going back to Georgia, are going back to Louisiana, go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation will be able and will be changed. the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation will be able and will be 've changed Let the united states not wallow in both the valley of the desperation, I say to you the present day, my friendly countries. And well, then even though we are faced with the the problems of these days and tomorrow, I still have a have a ball. It that's a have a ball very much rooted in the American dream. I have a have a ball that one the daytime this nation will rise up and were living out the really true meaning of its their beliefs : "We hold these truths in order to be done self-evident, that all men are created the equalization." I have a have a ball fact that one the daytime with respect the red hills of Georgia, the male children of former slaves and the sons of former slave the incumbents will be able to are sitting down together at the the picture of the brothers. I have a have a ball that one the daytime the same the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of the injustices, sweltering with the heat of the repression, will be done transformed into an oasis of their liberty and justice. I have a dream that our country four little children will one day live in a nation where they're going not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character. a have a ball that our country four little children 're going one day live in a nation 're going not be judged by the the colour of their skin I have a dream said today! I have a have a ball that one the daytime, it go in Alabama, with its vicious racists, with its the governor's having his lips dripping together with the the word of "interposition" and " nullification "-- one day that's right there in Alabama little black people boys and black young women will be able to become a member the hand with little white you guys and white young women as sisters and brothers for many years, right. I have a dream said today! I have a have a ball that one the daytime every valley needs to be exalted, and every hill and mountain needs to be made low, the rough places will be 're doing plain, and the crooked places will be're doing straight; "and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together." very straight; "and the glory This that's our the hopes, and this that's the faith that I'm going back to the South together with. With this faith, we're going be able to hew get out of the the mountains of the desperation a stone of hope said. With this faith, we're going be able to transform both the jangling discords of our nation into a really beautiful symphony of the brothers. With the present faith, we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to get going to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will be free one day. will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to get going to jail together, to stand up for freedom 're going be free one day