One be happy to join with you today in what will go down in history a the great demonstration for freedom in the history of our nation. five score days ago, a great American, in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, sign the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous rule do a a great beacon easy of hope to million of black slaves who have be seared in the fire of atrophy injustice. It do a a joyous daybreak to end the long night of their captivity. But one hundred days later, the black even be not free. one hundred days later, the life of the black be even sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the range of discrimination. one hundred days later, the black be on a alone island of poverty in the midst of a huge ocean of material prosperity. one hundred days later, the black be even languished in the corner of American company and find himself an exile in his own land. And so we've do here today to dramatize a black condition. in a feel we've do to our nation's capital to cash a check. When the architects of our democracy write the brilliant word of the Constitution and the resolution of Independence, they be sign a promissory notice to which every American be to drop heir. This notice be a promise that all men, yes, black world a good a white men, would be guarantee the "unalienable Rights" of "Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." It be obvious today that America have defaulted on this promissory note, insofar a her citizen of semblance be concerned. rather of respect this sacred obligation, America have give the black people a bad check, a see which have do back set "insufficient funds." But we deny to think that the bank of judge be bankrupt. We deny to think that there be insufficient fund in the great vaults of opportunity of this nation. And so, we've do to cash this check, a see that will give us upon need the wealth of freedom and the security of justice. We have besides do to this hallowed point to remind America of the fierce urgency of Now. This be no time to hire in the luxury of cool off or to take the tranquilizing drug of gradualism. now be the time to have very the promise of democracy. now be the time to raise from the night and desolate valley of segregation to the sunlit way of racial justice. now be the time to raise our state from the quicksands of racial injustice to the firm rock of brotherhood. now be the time to have judge a world for all of God's children. It would be black for the state to dominate the urgency of the moment. This sweltering summer of the Negro's legitimate discontent will not run until there be an inspire fall of freedom and equality. Nineteen sixty-three be not an end, but a beginning. And those who hope that the black want to waste off steam and will now be message will have a natural awakening if the state fall to business a usual. And there will be neither stay nor tranquility in America until the black be given his citizenship rights. The whirlwinds of revolt will stay to shake the foundation of our state until the bright day of judge emerges. But there be something that one must say to my people, who stand on the strong threshold which go into the palace of justice: in the work of reach our true place, we must not be guilty of wrongful deeds. get us not try to meet our thirst for freedom by drinking from the cup of bitterness and hatred. We must forever lead our fight on the high plane of dignity and discipline. We must not let our creative protest to degenerate into physical violence. again and again, we must raise to the majestic high of meeting physical power with person force. The fantastic new militancy which have engulfed the black community must not go us to a distrust of all white people, for many of our white brothers, a tell by their presence here today, have do to understand that their fortune be tied up with our destiny. And they have do to understand that their freedom be inextricably jump to our freedom. We cannot walk alone. And a we walk, we must have the pledge that we shall always border ahead. We cannot go back. there be those who be ask the give of civil rights, "When will you be satisfied?" We can never be meet a long a the black be the victim of the unspeakable horror of police brutality. We can never be meet a long a our bodies, big with the fatigue of travel, cannot addition charge in the motels of the highways and the hotel of the cities. We cannot be meet a long a the negro's basic mobility be from a little ghetto to a big one. We can never be meet a long a our child be clean of their self-hood and robbed of their dignity by sign stating: "For white Only." We cannot be meet a long a a black in Mississippi cannot vote and a black in new York think he have nothing for which to vote. No, no, we be not satisfied, and we will not be meet until "justice cast down like waters, and righteousness like a mighty stream." one be not unmindful that some of you have do here out of great test and tribulations. some of you have do clean from minute jail cells. And some of you have do from area where your quest -- quest for freedom left you battered by the ramp of persecution and staggered by the winds of police brutality. You have be the veteran of creative suffering. stay to make with the faith that unearned hurt be redemptive. go back to Mississippi, go back to Alabama, go back to South Carolina, go back to Georgia, go back to Louisiana, go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, know that somehow this situation can and will be changed. get us not wallow in the valley of despair, one say to you today, my friends. And so even though we front the trouble of today and tomorrow, one even have a dream. It be a dream deeply rooted in the American dream. one have a dream that one day this state will raise up and be out the true mean of its creed: "We have these truth to be self-evident, that all world be make equal." one have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia, the son of early slaves and the son of early slave owner will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood. one have a dream that one day even the country of Mississippi, a country sweltering with the heat of injustice, sweltering with the heat of oppression, will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice. one have a dream that my four little child will one day be in a state where they will not be judge by the semblance of their skin but by the message of their character. one have a dream today! one have a dream that one day, down in Alabama, with its evil racists, with its governor have his lips dripping with the word of "interposition" and "nullification" -- one day good there in Alabama little black son and black daughter will be able to join hands with little white son and white daughter a baby and brothers. one have a dream today! one have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted, and every hill and mountain shall be have low, the rough put will be have plain, and the crooked put will be have straight; "and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together." This be our hope, and this be the faith that one go back to the South with. With this faith, we will be able to hew out of the mountain of despair a stone of hope. With this faith, we will be able to transform the jangling disagree of our state into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. With this faith, we will be able to make together, to beg together, to fight together, to go to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, know that we will be rid one day.