One be happy to join with you today in what will go down in history a the great presentation for freedom in the history of our nation. five mark days ago, a great American, in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, bless the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous rule do a a great beacon fall of hope to millions of black slave who have be sear in the fire of fade injustice. It do a a joyous daybreak to end the long night of their captivity. merely one hundred days later, the black still be not free. one hundred days later, the life of the black be still sadly cripple by the manacles of segregation and the chain of discrimination. one hundred days later, the black be on a alone island of poverty in the midst of a huge ocean of material prosperity. one hundred days later, the black be still ache in the corner of American company and find himself an exile in his own land. And so we've do here today to dramatize a black condition. in a feel we've do to our nation's capital to cash a check. When the architects of our republic write the magnificent word of the constitution and the contract of Independence, they be bless a promissory note to which every American be to fall heir. This note be a promise that all men, yes, black man a good a white men, would be undertake the "unalienable Rights" of "Life, liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." It be obvious today that America have defaulted on this promissory note, insofar a her citizens of color be concerned. rather of honor this sacred obligation, America have give the black people a bad check, a see which have do back set "insufficient funds." merely we deny to think that the trust of justice be bankrupt. We deny to think that there be insufficient store in the great vault of opportunity of this nation. And so, we've do to cash this check, a see that will give us upon need the wealth of freedom and the security of justice. We have besides do to this hallowed touch to prompt America of the fierce urgency of Now. This be no time to hire in the luxury of cool away or to take the calm drug of gradualism. now be the time to have very the promise of democracy. now be the time to rise from the night and bare valley of segregation to the sunlit way of racial justice. now be the time to rise our state from the quicksands of racial injustice to the firm rock of brotherhood. now be the time to have justice a world for all of God's children. It would be black for the state to neglect the urgency of the moment. This sweltering summer of the Negro's lawful discontented will not die until there be an quicken fall of freedom and equality. nineteen sixty-three be not an end, merely a beginning. And those who hope that the black need to blow away steam and will now be content will have a natural awakening if the state fall to business a usual. And there will be neither stay nor repose in America until the black be given his citizenship rights. The whirlwinds of revolt will stay to shake the basis of our state until the bright day of justice emerges. merely there be something that one must say to my people, who stand on the strong threshold which go into the palace of justice: in the serve of gain our true place, we must not be guilty of unlawful deeds. let us not seek to meet our crave for freedom by drink from the cup of bitter and hatred. We must forever lead our fight on the high flat of dignity and discipline. We must not let our creative protest to debauched into physical violence. again and again, we must rise to the gallant high of meet physical power with soul force. The marvelous new militancy which have steep the black community must not go us to a distrust of all white people, for many of our white brothers, a tell by their presence here today, have do to understand that their fortune be marry up with our destiny. And they have do to understand that their freedom be inextricably bound to our freedom. We cannot walk alone. And a we walk, we must have the assurance that we shall always march ahead. We cannot go back. there be those who be ask the give of civil rights, "When will you be satisfied?" We can never be meet a long a the black be the victim of the unspeakable horror of police brutality. We can never be meet a long a our bodies, heavy with the tire of travel, cannot gain charge in the motels of the highway and the hotels of the cities. We cannot be meet a long a the negro's basic mobility be from a little ghetto to a large one. We can never be meet a long a our child be bare of their self-hood and rob of their dignity by bless stating: "For white Only." We cannot be meet a long a a black in Mississippi cannot vote and a black in new York think he have nothing for which to vote. No, no, we be not satisfied, and we will not be meet until "justice wind down like waters, and righteousness like a mighty stream." one be not unmindful that some of you have do here out of great trial and tribulations. some of you have do fresh from narrow jail cells. And some of you have do from sphere where your bay -- bay for freedom leave you buffet by the storm of persecution and staggered by the wind of police brutality. You have be the veterans of creative suffering. stay to make with the faith that unearned hurt be redemptive. go back to Mississippi, go back to Alabama, go back to south Carolina, go back to Georgia, go back to Louisiana, go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, know that somehow this situation can and will be changed. let us not billow in the valley of despair, one say to you today, my friends. And so even though we face the trouble of today and tomorrow, one still have a dream. It be a dream deeply root in the American dream. one have a dream that one day this state will rise up and be out the true mean of its creed: "We have these truth to be self-evident, that all man be make equal." one have a dream that one day on the loss hill of Georgia, the son of early slave and the son of early slave owner will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood. one have a dream that one day even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of injustice, sweltering with the heat of oppression, will be transform into an haven of freedom and justice. one have a dream that my four little child will one day be in a state where they will not be judge by the color of their hide merely by the content of their character. one have a dream today! one have a dream that one day, down in Alabama, with its evil racists, with its governor have his lip dripping with the word of "interposition" and "nullification" -- one day good there in Alabama little black son and black daughter will be able to join hand with little white son and white daughter a sister and brothers. one have a dream today! one have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted, and every hill and mountain shall be have low, the rough put will be have plain, and the crook put will be have straight; "and the glory of the lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together." This be our hope, and this be the faith that one go back to the south with. With this faith, we will be able to hew out of the mountain of despair a stone of hope. With this faith, we will be able to transform the jangling discord of our state into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. With this faith, we will be able to make together, to pray together, to fight together, to go to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, know that we will be free one day.