Loading PPDB...
Tokenizing...
Generating paraphrases...
I am happy to join with you today in what will go down in history as the greatest demonstration for freedom in the history of our nation. -> I am so pleased to see you both to adhere to with you the present day in something which will go down in the story just like the greatest demonstration for the purposes the liberty in the past history of our nation.
Five score years ago, a great American, in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, signed the Emancipation Proclamation. -> Five score many years ago, a very great American, in whose symbolic the shadows we're stand the present day, the signing the Emancipation Proclamation.
This momentous decree came as a great beacon light of hope to millions of Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice. -> This momentous this order came just like a very great beacon light of the hopes to millions of people of Negro a slave to whom had been seared in both the flames of withering the injustices.
It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of their captivity. -> It came just like a joyous daybreak to end the very long night of their own captivity.
But one hundred years later, the Negro still is not free. -> But one the hundreds years when you grow up, james, both the Negro not yet is not free of charge.
One hundred years later, the life of the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discrimination. -> One the hundreds years when you grow up, james, the their lives of both the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of the separation and the chains of the distinction. the manacles of the separation and both the manacles discrimination of any kind
One hundred years later, the Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of material prosperity. -> One the hundreds years when you grow up, james, the Negro living conditions in respect a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast the marine of material prosperity. a very lonely island of poverty issues in both the midst a vast the marine of the texts prosperity
One hundred years later, the Negro is still languished in the corners of American society and finds himself an exile in his own land. -> One hundred years when you grow up, james, the negro is still languished in both the corners of American the corporation, and finds himself an exile in his own the ground.
And so we've come here today to dramatize a shameful condition. -> And well, then we 've come in this place today to dramatize a quite disgraceful condition.
In a sense we've come to our nation's capital to cash a check. -> In a sense we do have come to our nation's the deduction to the money a check.
When the architects of our republic wrote the magnificent words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, they were signing a promissory note to which every American was to fall heir. -> When the architects of our republic have written the just beautiful words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, they were signing a promissory please note to which every American was to fall heir. the Constitution and both the Declaration were signing a promissory please note all those American was with a view to 's dropping heir
This note was a promise that all men, yes, black men as well as white men, would be guaranteed the "unalienable Rights" of "Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." -> This please note was a have my word that all men, that's right, black men as well as white men, would be guaranteed the "unalienable Rights" of "Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." both the pursuit
It is obvious today that America has defaulted on this promissory note, insofar as her citizens of color are concerned. -> It is very obvious the present day that America has defaulted with respect this promissory note, as far just like her the people of the colour are in question.
Instead of honoring this sacred obligation, America has given the Negro people a bad check, a check which has come back marked "insufficient funds." -> Instead of honoring the present sacred obligation , America has taking into account the Negro members of the public a bad check, a check which has come back marked "not enough funds."
But we refuse to believe that the bank of justice is bankrupt. -> But we refuse to think that that the bank of justice is bankrupt.
We refuse to believe that there are insufficient funds in the great vaults of opportunity of this nation. -> We refuse with a view to think that that there are insufficient the means in the great vaults of the chance of this nation.
And so, we've come to cash this check, a check that will give us upon demand the riches of freedom and the security of justice. -> And so, we do have come to cash this check, a check that will give the united states upon demand the riches of their liberty and the security of justice.
We have also come to this hallowed spot to remind America of the fierce urgency of Now. -> We have, too, come to the present hallowed spot to remind ourselves America of the fierce a matter of urgency of Now said.
This is no time to engage in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing drug of gradualism. -> This is no good time to commit themselves in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing dangerous drugs of gradualism. the luxury of air conditioning off or to take both the luxury take the tranquilizing dangerous drugs gradualism
Now is the time to make real the promises of democracy. -> Now is the high time to are doing very real the promises of democracy said.
Now is the time to rise from the dark and desolate valley of segregation to the sunlit path of racial justice. -> Now is the high time to rise from the the night and desolate valley of the separation to the sunlit the route of racial justice.
Now is the time to lift our nation from the quicksands of racial injustice to the solid rock of brotherhood. -> Now is the time to are living our nation from the quicksands of racial injustice to the solid rock of the brothers. the high time to are living our nation
Now is the time to make justice a reality for all of God's children. -> Now is the high time to are doing the courts a reality for the whole of God shall be children. God shall be
It would be fatal for the nation to overlook the urgency of the moment. -> It would be life threatening for the nation to overlook the a matter of urgency of both the moment.
This sweltering summer of the Negro's legitimate discontent will not pass until there is an invigorating autumn of freedom and equality. -> This sweltering summer of the Negro's legitimate discontent will not pass until there is an invigorating this fall of freedom and equality. the Negro shall be legitimate discontent will not pass all the way to there is an invigorating this fall of the liberty and equality
Nineteen sixty-three is not an end, but a beginning. -> Nineteen sixty-three is failed to an purpose, but a beginning said.
And those who hope that the Negro needed to blow off steam and will now be content will have a rude awakening if the nation returns to business as usual. -> And those who hope that the negro is required to blow off steam and will now be content will have a very rude awakening you know, if the nation the return in order to the business world just like usual.
And there will be neither rest nor tranquility in America until the Negro is granted his citizenship rights. -> And right there will be neither rest time also not tranquility in America all the way to the the Negro is granted his citizenship the right.
The whirlwinds of revolt will continue to shake the foundations of our nation until the bright day of justice emerges. -> The whirlwinds of the uprising will go on like this to shake the foundations of our nation till the the bright day of justice is emerging. both the foundations our own nation both the bright day
But there is something that I must say to my people, who stand on the warm threshold which leads into the palace of justice: In the process of gaining our rightful place, we must not be guilty of wrongful deeds. -> But right there is a little something that I must tell you to my people, who stand on the warm threshold which leads into both the palace of the courts : In the processes that of gaining our rightful taking place , we must not be guilty about my work of wrongful deeds.
Let us not seek to satisfy our thirst for freedom by drinking from the cup of bitterness and hatred. -> Let the united states not are looking for to satisfy our the hunger for the purposes the freedoms from here drinking from both the cup of bitterness as well as hate speech.
We must forever conduct our struggle on the high plane of dignity and discipline. -> We are required forever conduct our struggle with respect the very high plane of the human dignity and discipline.
We must not allow our creative protest to degenerate into physical violence. -> We must not make it possible our creative the protests to degenerate into whether natural violence.
Again and again, we must rise to the majestic heights of meeting physical force with soul force. -> Again and yet again, we must rise to the majestic the height of meeting whether natural force with soul force.
The marvelous new militancy which has engulfed the Negro community must not lead us to a distrust of all white people, for many of our white brothers, as evidenced by their presence here today, have come to realize that their destiny is tied up with our destiny. -> The that wonderful once again militancy which has engulfed the Negro community level are required to not lead the united states in order to a the mistrust of the whole white people , for the purposes a great number of our white brothers, as evidenced by their presence in this place the present day, have come with a view to realize that their the fate is tied in place with our the fate.
And they have come to realize that their freedom is inextricably bound to our freedom. -> And they have come to realize that their his liberty is inextricably bound to our freedom.
We cannot walk alone. -> We will be able to not walk alone.
And as we walk, we must make the pledge that we shall always march ahead. -> And as we walk, we must make the pledge that we shall always march the front. 's working, we must make both the pledge
We cannot turn back. -> We cannot their part back.
There are those who are asking the devotees of civil rights, "When will you be satisfied?" -> There are the persons who are asking the devotees of civil the right, "When will you be complied with ?"
We can never be satisfied as long as the Negro is the victim of the unspeakable horrors of police brutality. -> We will be able to never be satisfied as long as the Negro is the victim of the unspeakable horrors of the police force brutality. the the victims of both the victim the police force brutality
We can never be satisfied as long as our bodies, heavy with the fatigue of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the cities. -> We will be able to never be satisfied as a very long time as our bodies, heavy with the fatigue of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the cities. a very long time as our bodies, heavy with the fatigue of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of both the highways
We cannot be satisfied as long as the negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. -> We cannot be satisfied as a very long time as the negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. will be able to not be satisfied as long as the negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one.
We can never be satisfied as long as our children are stripped of their self-hood and robbed of their dignity by signs stating: "For Whites Only." -> We will be able to never be satisfied as long as our young children are stripped of their self-hood as well as robbed of their dignity from here the posters stating: "For Whites Only." the posters stating: "For Whites Only."
We cannot be satisfied as long as a Negro in Mississippi cannot vote and a Negro in New York believes he has nothing for which to vote. -> We cannot be satisfied as long as a negro in mississippi cannot cast their ballots and a negro in new york believes he has nothing for which to vote. cannot be satisfied as long as a Negro in Mississippi cannot cast their ballots and a Negro in New York believes oh, nothing
No, no, we are not satisfied, and we will not be satisfied until "justice rolls down like waters, and righteousness like a mighty stream." -> No, oh, no, we are not either satisfied , and we will not be satisfied all the way to the "justice rolls down like waters, and the virtue as though a mighty stream."
I am not unmindful that some of you have come here out of great trials and tribulations. -> I 's me not unmindful that a little of you have come in this place out of very great trials and tribulations.
Some of you have come fresh from narrow jail cells. -> Some of you have come fresh from narrow the prison cells.
And some of you have come from areas where your quest -- quest for freedom left you battered by the storms of persecution and staggered by the winds of police brutality. -> And a little of you have come here from the fields where the fuck your quest -- quest for the purposes the freedoms were gone you guys battered from here both the storms of persecution as well as staggered from here the high winds of the police force brutality.
You have been the veterans of creative suffering. -> You have been the former combatants of creative the sufferings.
Continue to work with the faith that unearned suffering is redemptive. -> Continue with a view to the working with both the faith fact that unearned suffering is redemptive.
Go back to Mississippi, go back to Alabama, go back to South Carolina, go back to Georgia, go back to Louisiana, go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation can and will be changed. -> Go back with a view to Mississippi , are going back to Alabama , are going back to South Carolina , are going back to Georgia , are going back to Louisiana , go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this state of affairs can and will be changed. the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this state of affairs can and will be 've changed
Let us not wallow in the valley of despair, I say to you today, my friends. -> Let the united states not wallow in both the valley of despair, I tell you to you the present day, my good friends.
And so even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream. -> And well, then even though we faced with the the challenges of these days and tomorrow, I still have a dreaming this.
It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream. -> It that's a dreaming this very much rooted in the American dream.
I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed: "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal." -> I have a dreaming this that one the daytime the present nation will rise up and live out the true which means of its their beliefs : "We hold these truths with a view to be done self-evident , that all men are created the equality."
I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia, the sons of former slaves and the sons of former slave owners will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood. -> I have a dreaming this fact that one the daytime with respect the red hills of Georgia , the their son of the old slaves and the sons of former slave owners will be able to sit down taken together at the the painting of the brothers.
I have a dream that one day even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of injustice, sweltering with the heat of oppression, will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice. -> I have a dreaming this that one the daytime even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering together with both the heat of the injustices, sweltering with the heat of the repression , will be done transformed into an oasis of their liberty and justice.
I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character. -> I have a dream that my four little children will one day have lived in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their nature. a dreaming this that my four little young children will one day have lived in a nation will not be judged from here both the color of their own skin
I have a dream today! -> I have a dream the present day!
I have a dream that one day, down in Alabama, with its vicious racists, with its governor having his lips dripping with the words of "interposition" and "nullification" -- one day right there in Alabama little black boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters and brothers. -> I have a dreaming this that one the daytime , down in Alabama, with its vicious racists, together with its the ruler having his lips dripping together with both the words of "interposition" and " nullification "-- one day right right there in Alabama little black young boys and black the daughters will be able to acceding to your hand with little white young boys and white the daughters as sisters and brothers for many years, right.
I have a dream today! -> I have a dream the present day!
I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted, and every hill and mountain shall be made low, the rough places will be made plain, and the crooked places will be made straight; "and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together." -> I have a dreaming this that one the daytime every valley shall be done exalted , and every hill and mountain shall be have done low, the rough places will be have done plain , and the crooked places will be have done straight; "and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together." very straight; "and the glory
This is our hope, and this is the faith that I go back to the South with. -> This that's our the hopes , and the present is the faith that I returning to the South together with.
With this faith, we will be able to hew out of the mountain of despair a stone of hope. -> With this faith, we will power to hew out of here of both the mountain of the desperation a stone of the hopes.
With this faith, we will be able to transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. -> With this faith, we will power to transform both the jangling discords of our own nation into a very pretty symphony of the brothers.
With this faith, we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will be free one day. -> With the present faith , we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for their liberty together, knowing that we will be free one day. will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to the prison together, to stand up for freedom will be done free one day
I am so pleased to see you both to adhere to with you the present day in something which will go down in the story just like the greatest demonstration for the purposes the liberty in the past history of our nation. Five score many years ago, a very great American, in whose symbolic the shadows we're stand the present day, the signing the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous this order came just like a very great beacon light of the hopes to millions of people of Negro a slave to whom had been seared in both the flames of withering the injustices. It came just like a joyous daybreak to end the very long night of their own captivity. But one the hundreds years when you grow up, james, both the Negro not yet is not free of charge. One the hundreds years when you grow up, james, the their lives of both the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of the separation and the chains of the distinction. the manacles of the separation and both the manacles discrimination of any kind One the hundreds years when you grow up, james, the Negro living conditions in respect a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast the marine of material prosperity. a very lonely island of poverty issues in both the midst a vast the marine of the texts prosperity One hundred years when you grow up, james, the negro is still languished in both the corners of American the corporation, and finds himself an exile in his own the ground. And well, then we 've come in this place today to dramatize a quite disgraceful condition. In a sense we do have come to our nation's the deduction to the money a check. When the architects of our republic have written the just beautiful words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, they were signing a promissory please note to which every American was to fall heir. the Constitution and both the Declaration were signing a promissory please note all those American was with a view to 's dropping heir This please note was a have my word that all men, that's right, black men as well as white men, would be guaranteed the "unalienable Rights" of "Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." both the pursuit It is very obvious the present day that America has defaulted with respect this promissory note, as far just like her the people of the colour are in question. Instead of honoring the present sacred obligation , America has taking into account the Negro members of the public a bad check, a check which has come back marked "not enough funds." But we refuse to think that that the bank of justice is bankrupt. We refuse with a view to think that that there are insufficient the means in the great vaults of the chance of this nation. And so, we do have come to cash this check, a check that will give the united states upon demand the riches of their liberty and the security of justice. We have, too, come to the present hallowed spot to remind ourselves America of the fierce a matter of urgency of Now said. This is no good time to commit themselves in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing dangerous drugs of gradualism. the luxury of air conditioning off or to take both the luxury take the tranquilizing dangerous drugs gradualism Now is the high time to are doing very real the promises of democracy said. Now is the high time to rise from the the night and desolate valley of the separation to the sunlit the route of racial justice. Now is the time to are living our nation from the quicksands of racial injustice to the solid rock of the brothers. the high time to are living our nation Now is the high time to are doing the courts a reality for the whole of God shall be children. God shall be It would be life threatening for the nation to overlook the a matter of urgency of both the moment. This sweltering summer of the Negro's legitimate discontent will not pass until there is an invigorating this fall of freedom and equality. the Negro shall be legitimate discontent will not pass all the way to there is an invigorating this fall of the liberty and equality Nineteen sixty-three is failed to an purpose, but a beginning said. And those who hope that the negro is required to blow off steam and will now be content will have a very rude awakening you know, if the nation the return in order to the business world just like usual. And right there will be neither rest time also not tranquility in America all the way to the the Negro is granted his citizenship the right. The whirlwinds of the uprising will go on like this to shake the foundations of our nation till the the bright day of justice is emerging. both the foundations our own nation both the bright day But right there is a little something that I must tell you to my people, who stand on the warm threshold which leads into both the palace of the courts : In the processes that of gaining our rightful taking place , we must not be guilty about my work of wrongful deeds. Let the united states not are looking for to satisfy our the hunger for the purposes the freedoms from here drinking from both the cup of bitterness as well as hate speech. We are required forever conduct our struggle with respect the very high plane of the human dignity and discipline. We must not make it possible our creative the protests to degenerate into whether natural violence. Again and yet again, we must rise to the majestic the height of meeting whether natural force with soul force. The that wonderful once again militancy which has engulfed the Negro community level are required to not lead the united states in order to a the mistrust of the whole white people , for the purposes a great number of our white brothers, as evidenced by their presence in this place the present day, have come with a view to realize that their the fate is tied in place with our the fate. And they have come to realize that their his liberty is inextricably bound to our freedom. We will be able to not walk alone. And as we walk, we must make the pledge that we shall always march the front. 's working, we must make both the pledge We cannot their part back. There are the persons who are asking the devotees of civil the right, "When will you be complied with ?" We will be able to never be satisfied as long as the Negro is the victim of the unspeakable horrors of the police force brutality. the the victims of both the victim the police force brutality We will be able to never be satisfied as a very long time as our bodies, heavy with the fatigue of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the cities. a very long time as our bodies, heavy with the fatigue of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of both the highways We cannot be satisfied as a very long time as the negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. will be able to not be satisfied as long as the negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. We will be able to never be satisfied as long as our young children are stripped of their self-hood as well as robbed of their dignity from here the posters stating: "For Whites Only." the posters stating: "For Whites Only." We cannot be satisfied as long as a negro in mississippi cannot cast their ballots and a negro in new york believes he has nothing for which to vote. cannot be satisfied as long as a Negro in Mississippi cannot cast their ballots and a Negro in New York believes oh, nothing No, oh, no, we are not either satisfied , and we will not be satisfied all the way to the "justice rolls down like waters, and the virtue as though a mighty stream." I 's me not unmindful that a little of you have come in this place out of very great trials and tribulations. Some of you have come fresh from narrow the prison cells. And a little of you have come here from the fields where the fuck your quest -- quest for the purposes the freedoms were gone you guys battered from here both the storms of persecution as well as staggered from here the high winds of the police force brutality. You have been the former combatants of creative the sufferings. Continue with a view to the working with both the faith fact that unearned suffering is redemptive. Go back with a view to Mississippi , are going back to Alabama , are going back to South Carolina , are going back to Georgia , are going back to Louisiana , go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this state of affairs can and will be changed. the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this state of affairs can and will be 've changed Let the united states not wallow in both the valley of despair, I tell you to you the present day, my good friends. And well, then even though we faced with the the challenges of these days and tomorrow, I still have a dreaming this. It that's a dreaming this very much rooted in the American dream. I have a dreaming this that one the daytime the present nation will rise up and live out the true which means of its their beliefs : "We hold these truths with a view to be done self-evident , that all men are created the equality." I have a dreaming this fact that one the daytime with respect the red hills of Georgia , the their son of the old slaves and the sons of former slave owners will be able to sit down taken together at the the painting of the brothers. I have a dreaming this that one the daytime even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering together with both the heat of the injustices, sweltering with the heat of the repression , will be done transformed into an oasis of their liberty and justice. I have a dream that my four little children will one day have lived in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their nature. a dreaming this that my four little young children will one day have lived in a nation will not be judged from here both the color of their own skin I have a dream the present day! I have a dreaming this that one the daytime , down in Alabama, with its vicious racists, together with its the ruler having his lips dripping together with both the words of "interposition" and " nullification "-- one day right right there in Alabama little black young boys and black the daughters will be able to acceding to your hand with little white young boys and white the daughters as sisters and brothers for many years, right. I have a dream the present day! I have a dreaming this that one the daytime every valley shall be done exalted , and every hill and mountain shall be have done low, the rough places will be have done plain , and the crooked places will be have done straight; "and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together." very straight; "and the glory This that's our the hopes , and the present is the faith that I returning to the South together with. With this faith, we will power to hew out of here of both the mountain of the desperation a stone of the hopes. With this faith, we will power to transform both the jangling discords of our own nation into a very pretty symphony of the brothers. With the present faith , we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for their liberty together, knowing that we will be free one day. will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to the prison together, to stand up for freedom will be done free one day
