Loading PPDB...
Tokenizing...
Generating paraphrases...
I am happy to join with you today in what will go down in history as the greatest demonstration for freedom in the history of our nation. -> I am very pleased to join together with you the present day in something which will go down in of historical just like the greatest demonstration for the purposes the liberty in the ancient history of our nation said.
Five score years ago, a great American, in whose symbolic shadow we stand today, signed the Emancipation Proclamation. -> Five score several years ago, a very great American, in whose symbolic the shadows we're stand the present day, the signing the Emancipation Proclamation.
This momentous decree came as a great beacon light of hope to millions of Negro slaves who had been seared in the flames of withering injustice. -> This momentous executive order came just like a really great beacon light of the hopes to millions of people of Negro slaves to whom had been seared in the the fires of withering the injustices.
It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of their captivity. -> It came just like a joyous daybreak to end the very long night of their captivity said.
But one hundred years later, the Negro still is not free. -> But just one hundred years a little later, both the Negro still is doesn't free.
One hundred years later, the life of the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of discrimination. -> One the hundreds years a little later, the their lives of both the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of the separation and the chains of the distinction. the manacles of the separation and the manacles the distinction
One hundred years later, the Negro lives on a lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of material prosperity. -> One the hundreds years a little later, the Negro living conditions on a a little lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of material civilization prosperity. a a little lonely island of poverty reduction in both the midst a vast the ocean floor of the materials prosperity
One hundred years later, the Negro is still languished in the corners of American society and finds himself an exile in his own land. -> One hundred years later, the negro that's still languished in both the corners of American the corporation, and finds himself an exile in his own the ground.
And so we've come here today to dramatize a shameful condition. -> And well, then we 've come in this place today to dramatize a quite disgraceful condition.
In a sense we've come to our nation's capital to cash a check. -> In feelings we've come to our nation's the capital city to the money a check.
When the architects of our republic wrote the magnificent words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, they were signing a promissory note to which every American was to fall heir. -> When the architects of our republic have written the just beautiful words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, they were signing a promissory point out to which every American was to fall heir. the Constitution and the Declaration were signing a promissory please note each individual American was with a view to 's dropping heir
This note was a promise that all men, yes, black men as well as white men, would be guaranteed the "unalienable Rights" of "Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." -> This point out was a have my word that all men, that's right, black men as well as white men, would be guaranteed the "unalienable Rights" of "Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." the its exercise
It is obvious today that America has defaulted on this promissory note, insofar as her citizens of color are concerned. -> It is clearly evident the present day that America has defaulted with respect this promissory note, as far just like her the people of the colour are in question.
Instead of honoring this sacred obligation, America has given the Negro people a bad check, a check which has come back marked "insufficient funds." -> Instead of honoring the present sacred obligation , America has taking into account the Negro members of the public a bad check, a check which has come back marked "too little funds."
But we refuse to believe that the bank of justice is bankrupt. -> But we refuse to believe that the bank of justice that's bankrupt.
We refuse to believe that there are insufficient funds in the great vaults of opportunity of this nation. -> We refuse with a view to 'm thinking that there are the insufficiency funds in the great vaults of the opportunities of this nation.
And so, we've come to cash this check, a check that will give us upon demand the riches of freedom and the security of justice. -> And well, then, we've come to cash this check, a check that will give the united states upon the request the riches of freedom and the security of justice.
We have also come to this hallowed spot to remind America of the fierce urgency of Now. -> We have, too, come to the present hallowed spot to remind ourselves America of the fierce the request for urgent procedure of Now said.
This is no time to engage in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing drug of gradualism. -> This is there's no time to commit themselves in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing medicinal products of gradualism. the luxury of cooling off or taking the luxury be taking the tranquilizing drug gradualism
Now is the time to make real the promises of democracy. -> Now is the good time to be done very real the promises of democratic politics.
Now is the time to rise from the dark and desolate valley of segregation to the sunlit path of racial justice. -> Now is the good time to rise from the dark enough and desolate valley of the separation to the sunlit path of racial administration of justice.
Now is the time to lift our nation from the quicksands of racial injustice to the solid rock of brotherhood. -> Now is the time to are living our nation from the quicksands of racial injustice to the solid the rocks of brotherhood. the enough time to the lifts our nation
Now is the time to make justice a reality for all of God's children. -> Now is the good time to be done the judge a reality for the whole of God's young children. God shall be
It would be fatal for the nation to overlook the urgency of the moment. -> It would be life threatening for the nation to overlook the the request for urgent procedure of the moment said.
This sweltering summer of the Negro's legitimate discontent will not pass until there is an invigorating autumn of freedom and equality. -> This sweltering summer of the Negro's legitimate discontent will not pass extended through there is an invigorating autumn of freedom and equality. the Negro's legitimate the dissatisfaction will not pass extended through there is an invigorating this fall of the liberty and equality
Nineteen sixty-three is not an end, but a beginning. -> Nineteen sixty-three that's not an purpose, but a beginning said.
And those who hope that the Negro needed to blow off steam and will now be content will have a rude awakening if the nation returns to business as usual. -> And those people who hope that the negro needed to blow off steam and will now be content will have a really rude awakening you know, if the nation the return with a view to the business community as always.
And there will be neither rest nor tranquility in America until the Negro is granted his citizenship rights. -> And right there will be don't either rest also not tranquility in America extended through the Negro is granted his their nationality rights.
The whirlwinds of revolt will continue to shake the foundations of our nation until the bright day of justice emerges. -> The whirlwinds of the uprising 're going continue to shake the foundations of our nation extended through the bright day of administration of justice emerges. the foundations our own nation the bright the daytime
But there is something that I must say to my people, who stand on the warm threshold which leads into the palace of justice: In the process of gaining our rightful place, we must not be guilty of wrongful deeds. -> But there that's a little something that I must said that to my people, who stand on the warm threshold which leads into the palace of administration of justice : In the processes that of gaining our rightful taking place , we must not be guilty about my work of wrongful deeds.
Let us not seek to satisfy our thirst for freedom by drinking from the cup of bitterness and hatred. -> Let the united states not looking for to satisfy our the hunger for the purposes the liberty of here drinking from both the cup of bitterness as well as hatred said.
We must forever conduct our struggle on the high plane of dignity and discipline. -> We are required forever conduct our struggle with respect the very high plane of the human dignity and discipline.
We must not allow our creative protest to degenerate into physical violence. -> We must not make it possible our creative protest with a view to degenerate into physical violence said.
Again and again, we must rise to the majestic heights of meeting physical force with soul force. -> Again and again, we are required to rise to the majestic the height of meeting whether natural force with soul force.
The marvelous new militancy which has engulfed the Negro community must not lead us to a distrust of all white people, for many of our white brothers, as evidenced by their presence here today, have come to realize that their destiny is tied up with our destiny. -> The that wonderful once again militancy which has engulfed the Negro community level is required to not lead the united states with a view to a no confidence of the whole white people , for the purposes many people of our white brothers, as evidenced by their presence over there the present day, have come down to realize fact that their the fate is tied up together with our the fate.
And they have come to realize that their freedom is inextricably bound to our freedom. -> And they have come to realize that their freedom that's inextricably bound to our freedom.
We cannot walk alone. -> We cannot walking around alone.
And as we walk, we must make the pledge that we shall always march ahead. -> And as we walking around, we must make the pledge that we shall always march ahead. walking around, we must make the pledge
We cannot turn back. -> We will be able to not turn back.
There are those who are asking the devotees of civil rights, "When will you be satisfied?" -> There are the people who are asking the devotees of civil rights rights, "When will you be either satisfied ?"
We can never be satisfied as long as the Negro is the victim of the unspeakable horrors of police brutality. -> We can never be satisfied as long as the Negro that's the victim of the unspeakable terrible things of police brutality. the the victims of the the victim's the police's brutality
We can never be satisfied as long as our bodies, heavy with the fatigue of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the cities. -> We possible to never be satisfied as long as our bodies, heavy together with the fatigue of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the cities. long as our bodies, heavy together with the fatigue of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the the main roads
We cannot be satisfied as long as the negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. -> We will be able to not be satisfied as long as the negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. possible to not be satisfied as long as the negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one.
We can never be satisfied as long as our children are stripped of their self-hood and robbed of their dignity by signs stating: "For Whites Only." -> We possible to never be satisfied as long as our young children are stripped of their own self-hood and robbed of their dignity from here the posters stating: "For Whites Only." the posters stating: "For Whites Only."
We cannot be satisfied as long as a Negro in Mississippi cannot vote and a Negro in New York believes he has nothing for which to vote. -> We cannot be satisfied as long as a negro in mississippi will be able to not vote and a negro in new york believes he has nothing for which to vote. cannot be satisfied as long as a Negro in Mississippi will be able to not vote and a Negro in New York is estimated oh, nothing
No, no, we are not satisfied, and we will not be satisfied until "justice rolls down like waters, and righteousness like a mighty stream." -> No, no, we are doesn't complied with , and we will not be satisfied extended through "justice rolls down like waters, and righteousness as though a mighty stream."
I am not unmindful that some of you have come here out of great trials and tribulations. -> I am doesn't unmindful that a little of you have come in this place out of very great trials and tribulations.
Some of you have come fresh from narrow jail cells. -> Some of you're have come fresh from narrow the prison cells.
And some of you have come from areas where your quest -- quest for freedom left you battered by the storms of persecution and staggered by the winds of police brutality. -> And some people of you have come down from the fields the case your quest -- quest for the purposes the liberty left your side you're battered from here the the storm of persecution as well as staggered from here the the wind of the police's brutality.
You have been the veterans of creative suffering. -> You have been the former combatants of creative pain and suffering.
Continue to work with the faith that unearned suffering is redemptive. -> Continue with a view to the working with the has been that unearned suffering that's redemptive.
Go back to Mississippi, go back to Alabama, go back to South Carolina, go back to Georgia, go back to Louisiana, go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation can and will be changed. -> Go back with a view to Mississippi , go down there back to Alabama , go down there back to South Carolina , go down there back to Georgia , go down there back to Louisiana , go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation will be able and will be changed. the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation will be able and will be 've changed
Let us not wallow in the valley of despair, I say to you today, my friends. -> Let us doesn't wallow in both the valley of despair, I said that to you the present day, my friendly countries.
And so even though we face the difficulties of today and tomorrow, I still have a dream. -> And well, then even though we are faced with the certain difficulties of these days and tomorrow, I still have a dreaming this.
It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream. -> It that's a dreaming this very deeply rooted in the American dream.
I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed: "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal." -> I have a must be dreaming that one the daytime this nation will rise up and were living out the true which means of its their beliefs : "We hold these truths with a view to be done self-evident , that the whole men are created equal."
I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia, the sons of former slaves and the sons of former slave owners will be able to sit down together at the table of brotherhood. -> I have a dreaming this fact that one the daytime with respect the red hills of Georgia , the male children of former slaves and the children of former slave owners will be able to 'm sitting down together at the the picture of the brothers.
I have a dream that one day even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering with the heat of injustice, sweltering with the heat of oppression, will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and justice. -> I have a must be dreaming that one the daytime even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering together with the heat of injustice, sweltering together with the heat of the repression , will be transformed into an oasis of their liberty and justice.
I have a dream that my four little children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character. -> I have a dream that my four little children will one day were living in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their nature. a must be dreaming that my country four little children will one day were living in a nation will not be judged from here the the colour of their own skin
I have a dream today! -> I have a dream the present day!
I have a dream that one day, down in Alabama, with its vicious racists, with its governor having his lips dripping with the words of "interposition" and "nullification" -- one day right there in Alabama little black boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls as sisters and brothers. -> I have a must be dreaming that one the daytime , down in Alabama, together with its vicious racists, with its the governor's having his lips dripping together with the the word of "interposition" and " nullification "-- one day that's right there in Alabama little black people boys and black little girls will be able to become a member the hand with little white people boys and white little girls as sisters and brothers for many years, right.
I have a dream today! -> I have a dream the present day!
I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted, and every hill and mountain shall be made low, the rough places will be made plain, and the crooked places will be made straight; "and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed and all flesh shall see it together." -> I have a must be dreaming that one the daytime each individual valley shall be exalted , and every hill and the mountains shall be made low, the rough places will be handed down plain , and the crooked places will be made straight; "and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed and the whole flesh shall see it together." very straight; "and the glory
This is our hope, and this is the faith that I go back to the South with. -> This that's our the hopes , and this that's the has been that I go back to the South with said.
With this faith, we will be able to hew out of the mountain of despair a stone of hope. -> With this has been, we will be able to hew get out of the the mountains of the desperation a stone of the hopes.
With this faith, we will be able to transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brotherhood. -> With this has been, we will be able to transform both the jangling discords of our own nation into a really beautiful symphony of the brothers.
With this faith, we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will be free one day. -> With the present faith , we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for their liberty together, knowing that we will be free one day. will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for their liberty 're going be free one day
I am very pleased to join together with you the present day in something which will go down in of historical just like the greatest demonstration for the purposes the liberty in the ancient history of our nation said. Five score several years ago, a very great American, in whose symbolic the shadows we're stand the present day, the signing the Emancipation Proclamation. This momentous executive order came just like a really great beacon light of the hopes to millions of people of Negro slaves to whom had been seared in the the fires of withering the injustices. It came just like a joyous daybreak to end the very long night of their captivity said. But just one hundred years a little later, both the Negro still is doesn't free. One the hundreds years a little later, the their lives of both the Negro is still sadly crippled by the manacles of the separation and the chains of the distinction. the manacles of the separation and the manacles the distinction One the hundreds years a little later, the Negro living conditions on a a little lonely island of poverty in the midst of a vast ocean of material civilization prosperity. a a little lonely island of poverty reduction in both the midst a vast the ocean floor of the materials prosperity One hundred years later, the negro that's still languished in both the corners of American the corporation, and finds himself an exile in his own the ground. And well, then we 've come in this place today to dramatize a quite disgraceful condition. In feelings we've come to our nation's the capital city to the money a check. When the architects of our republic have written the just beautiful words of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence, they were signing a promissory point out to which every American was to fall heir. the Constitution and the Declaration were signing a promissory please note each individual American was with a view to 's dropping heir This point out was a have my word that all men, that's right, black men as well as white men, would be guaranteed the "unalienable Rights" of "Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness." the its exercise It is clearly evident the present day that America has defaulted with respect this promissory note, as far just like her the people of the colour are in question. Instead of honoring the present sacred obligation , America has taking into account the Negro members of the public a bad check, a check which has come back marked "too little funds." But we refuse to believe that the bank of justice that's bankrupt. We refuse with a view to 'm thinking that there are the insufficiency funds in the great vaults of the opportunities of this nation. And well, then, we've come to cash this check, a check that will give the united states upon the request the riches of freedom and the security of justice. We have, too, come to the present hallowed spot to remind ourselves America of the fierce the request for urgent procedure of Now said. This is there's no time to commit themselves in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing medicinal products of gradualism. the luxury of cooling off or taking the luxury be taking the tranquilizing drug gradualism Now is the good time to be done very real the promises of democratic politics. Now is the good time to rise from the dark enough and desolate valley of the separation to the sunlit path of racial administration of justice. Now is the time to are living our nation from the quicksands of racial injustice to the solid the rocks of brotherhood. the enough time to the lifts our nation Now is the good time to be done the judge a reality for the whole of God's young children. God shall be It would be life threatening for the nation to overlook the the request for urgent procedure of the moment said. This sweltering summer of the Negro's legitimate discontent will not pass extended through there is an invigorating autumn of freedom and equality. the Negro's legitimate the dissatisfaction will not pass extended through there is an invigorating this fall of the liberty and equality Nineteen sixty-three that's not an purpose, but a beginning said. And those people who hope that the negro needed to blow off steam and will now be content will have a really rude awakening you know, if the nation the return with a view to the business community as always. And right there will be don't either rest also not tranquility in America extended through the Negro is granted his their nationality rights. The whirlwinds of the uprising 're going continue to shake the foundations of our nation extended through the bright day of administration of justice emerges. the foundations our own nation the bright the daytime But there that's a little something that I must said that to my people, who stand on the warm threshold which leads into the palace of administration of justice : In the processes that of gaining our rightful taking place , we must not be guilty about my work of wrongful deeds. Let the united states not looking for to satisfy our the hunger for the purposes the liberty of here drinking from both the cup of bitterness as well as hatred said. We are required forever conduct our struggle with respect the very high plane of the human dignity and discipline. We must not make it possible our creative protest with a view to degenerate into physical violence said. Again and again, we are required to rise to the majestic the height of meeting whether natural force with soul force. The that wonderful once again militancy which has engulfed the Negro community level is required to not lead the united states with a view to a no confidence of the whole white people , for the purposes many people of our white brothers, as evidenced by their presence over there the present day, have come down to realize fact that their the fate is tied up together with our the fate. And they have come to realize that their freedom that's inextricably bound to our freedom. We cannot walking around alone. And as we walking around, we must make the pledge that we shall always march ahead. walking around, we must make the pledge We will be able to not turn back. There are the people who are asking the devotees of civil rights rights, "When will you be either satisfied ?" We can never be satisfied as long as the Negro that's the victim of the unspeakable terrible things of police brutality. the the victims of the the victim's the police's brutality We possible to never be satisfied as long as our bodies, heavy together with the fatigue of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the cities. long as our bodies, heavy together with the fatigue of travel, cannot gain lodging in the motels of the highways and the hotels of the the main roads We will be able to not be satisfied as long as the negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. possible to not be satisfied as long as the negro's basic mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. We possible to never be satisfied as long as our young children are stripped of their own self-hood and robbed of their dignity from here the posters stating: "For Whites Only." the posters stating: "For Whites Only." We cannot be satisfied as long as a negro in mississippi will be able to not vote and a negro in new york believes he has nothing for which to vote. cannot be satisfied as long as a Negro in Mississippi will be able to not vote and a Negro in New York is estimated oh, nothing No, no, we are doesn't complied with , and we will not be satisfied extended through "justice rolls down like waters, and righteousness as though a mighty stream." I am doesn't unmindful that a little of you have come in this place out of very great trials and tribulations. Some of you're have come fresh from narrow the prison cells. And some people of you have come down from the fields the case your quest -- quest for the purposes the liberty left your side you're battered from here the the storm of persecution as well as staggered from here the the wind of the police's brutality. You have been the former combatants of creative pain and suffering. Continue with a view to the working with the has been that unearned suffering that's redemptive. Go back with a view to Mississippi , go down there back to Alabama , go down there back to South Carolina , go down there back to Georgia , go down there back to Louisiana , go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation will be able and will be changed. the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation will be able and will be 've changed Let us doesn't wallow in both the valley of despair, I said that to you the present day, my friendly countries. And well, then even though we are faced with the certain difficulties of these days and tomorrow, I still have a dreaming this. It that's a dreaming this very deeply rooted in the American dream. I have a must be dreaming that one the daytime this nation will rise up and were living out the true which means of its their beliefs : "We hold these truths with a view to be done self-evident , that the whole men are created equal." I have a dreaming this fact that one the daytime with respect the red hills of Georgia , the male children of former slaves and the children of former slave owners will be able to 'm sitting down together at the the picture of the brothers. I have a must be dreaming that one the daytime even the state of Mississippi, a state sweltering together with the heat of injustice, sweltering together with the heat of the repression , will be transformed into an oasis of their liberty and justice. I have a dream that my four little children will one day were living in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their nature. a must be dreaming that my country four little children will one day were living in a nation will not be judged from here the the colour of their own skin I have a dream the present day! I have a must be dreaming that one the daytime , down in Alabama, together with its vicious racists, with its the governor's having his lips dripping together with the the word of "interposition" and " nullification "-- one day that's right there in Alabama little black people boys and black little girls will be able to become a member the hand with little white people boys and white little girls as sisters and brothers for many years, right. I have a dream the present day! I have a must be dreaming that one the daytime each individual valley shall be exalted , and every hill and the mountains shall be made low, the rough places will be handed down plain , and the crooked places will be made straight; "and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed and the whole flesh shall see it together." very straight; "and the glory This that's our the hopes , and this that's the has been that I go back to the South with said. With this has been, we will be able to hew get out of the the mountains of the desperation a stone of the hopes. With this has been, we will be able to transform both the jangling discords of our own nation into a really beautiful symphony of the brothers. With the present faith , we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for their liberty together, knowing that we will be free one day. will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle together, to go to jail together, to stand up for their liberty 're going be free one day
